It is important, before you start,
that you know well what the different
stages are, what we will
in each stage and why.
Here is the scheme.
We start with the identification
of viable ideas that we will
turn into a business model and
then what we will do is go validating,
go evolving that business
model.
How is?
For the first thing talking
to customers, then we will
do very quick experiments and once
we have reached the first of the
milestones, which is problem,
solution fit, what we will do is
build our minimum viable
product that we will improve.
It is a process of a continuous
learning cycle until it reaches
product market fit.
We start with the first of the stages,
which is the identification of
ideas.
We always say that ideas are worthless,
but it is an indispensable requirement.
Without ideas, we cannot start.
So, that’s why we’ve incorporated
this module in which we’
ll help you identify
opportunities.
And we do it from a triple
perspective, because ideas
can arise in different ways.
The first is to look from the customer’
s perspective.
What we do is try to identify
whether there are problems and the more
serious and more people have them,
the better, to which no one has
been able to give an optimal solution.
Or, for example, what we will do
is identify if the customer experience
with some product or service
is very improved, it is as improved
as to launch an alternative
proposal.
Another possibility is a sector.
You know a sector, you know an industry,
and what you have identified
is that there is an opportunity,
an opportunity to compete
in a slightly different way.
Or, we are able to create
a blue ocean from the usual
value proposal in that
sector.
The third one is
you.
Sometimes what happens is that
you identify that you have
strengths, skills,
special knowledge or contacts,
whatever, that you can
turn into a competitive
advantage.
You build from there.
Regardless of how you came up with
the idea, we have to ask ourselves
a question that is vital and
is, and we can’t be fooled
and it is, this project
is for us.
And why have we incorporated this
and why will we force you to do so?
Because we see daily that there
are people, entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs
who have ideas that can be good
or not.
We are not going into that now.
The problem is that they don’t fit with them.
We have to find the match.
The match between the idea, the business
model and the founders.
And what does this depend on?
It depends on many things.
It depends on the implications
of that business model.
For example, what is needed,
what are the necessary competencies,
as to timing and others.
And it depends mostly on you.
It depends on what your
vital goals are.
It depends on whether you will be able or not.
It depends on what you like to
do, how you want your day to
be.
If everything fits, it’s a good point.
And if it doesn’t fit, the best thing,
no matter how well that idea sounds, is
to discard it.
Because, and we see it very often,
if what we do is choose projects
that are not for us,
in the end we are very likely
to fail.
What’s a drama, but it’s also
a cost of opportunity because
if you’ve chosen a project that’
s not for you, what you’re doing
is discarding others that
fit you better.
You are missing a lot
of opportunities.
The next step is to turn that idea
into a business model.
Do you know about Business Model Canvas?
This is a process
called Power Canvas.
It’s a lot better for the challenge
you have now.
The Business Model Canvas is not
designed to innovate, it is designed
to analyze and evolve business
models that already exist.
In Power Canvas we will force
you to think about really
important things, to identify what
the problem that it solves is,
and we will force you to define
what the characteristics, the
functionalities of your
value proposal are and how they
fit in with that problem,
for example.
And it’s also much more practical
because we’ll work on tools
that will be useful for you
later.
The Customer Persona, for example, or
the script.
You will create a script with
all the communications you
will use later in sales, marketing,
sales and more.
Or a dashboard, for example.
We will create a Dashboard with the
main metrics, with the important
ones for you of your business
model.
We will monitor these metrics and
see if we are on the right track
or not.
This will help you manage your
company better.
This phase, however, has to
be done very quickly.
I know people love to think
and draw their canvas and so
on, but we can’t spend more than
a day on this because we’re
wasting time, because it’
s worthless.
What you put on paper is not
worth it.
What we have to do is do it
very quickly and quickly
move on to the next steps in
which we will validate and we will
learn from customers if
all that you have put there
makes sense or doesn’t
make sense.
And if it doesn’t make sense,
either we discard the idea
or we evolve that business model.
As I said, the thought
phase is over.
Now let’s start with the really
important thing.
We will go out on the street and we will be able to validate.
We will see if we are on the right track
or not.
We will do it in three stages.
It makes sense
to do so.
Let’s start by talking to customers.
Then we will do very quick experiments
and when we have reached
problem, solution fit, what
we will do is build the first
version of your product.
Why do we do it so?
We have explained it other times.
Because what we do is
minimize the risk.
You can talk to your customers
today and you will learn a lot.
It is best to do so before taking
any additional risks.
As we validate and
learn, we take more
risk.
But we have already validated the hypotheses,
not before.
As we said, we start
by talking to customers.
I assure you that you learn
a lot by doing it.
And people think they did.
He asked four people around there
in a disorganized way.
They said it was a good idea.
It makes wrong conclusions and at the
end is harmful.
As I say, you learn a lot,
but it’s very difficult to
do it well.
So we’ll do it with a script.
We will do it in a super structured way.
We’ll share with you the templates
that will help you in those interviews,
in those conversations
with customers.
In some cases, what we will do is,
in interviews, we will support
ourselves in a demo or a mockup.
What we do so is show potential
customers what our solution
is.
Once we get to this point,
we will learn a lot.
You will see how you
learn a lot from conversations
with customers.
In most cases, we realize
that everything was wrong.
But well, it is best to do it
as soon as possible.
The next step is to do
experiments.
Experiments are, for example,
a landing page where we bring
some traffic and measure
or make ads on some platform
or create a video.
This, well done, also provides
us with a lot of information.
What happens is that there are a lot
of people who don’t.
And I often know that they don’t do it because
it gives them laziness or because they don’t
know how to do it.
You may not even know how to
make a landing page.
It is not an excuse.
Because if you put that excuse and
what you do is build your
product, invest time and money
and then fail, well, because
you are taking a very high risk.
What we will do is make it
easy for you.
We’ll share with you very practical
tips, for example, about how
to create a landing page or
how to make ads on platforms.
We’ll help you do some of these
experiments.
Well, coming to this point, we have
already talked to customers.
In some cases we have done experiments
that can provide us with
a lot of information.
We have to ask ourselves if we
have reached a problem solution
fit.
What we do not want is to be
fooled.
Because the next step is to
build the first version of your product
and this implies more risk.
You have to invest a little
more money.
So we have to be sure.
We’ll force you to ask questions
so you don’t get fooled.
We have reached problem solution
fit when we are sure that, because
we have checked it with customers,
who want to buy us, who see value,
who know how to explain
the value they see, who understand
our messages, who are
willing to pay for it.
We have basically validated
the main hypotheses of your
business empirically.
And at that point, as we validated
it and as you have not fooled
yourself, what we will do is
start taking more risks.
We will build the least viable
product.
So we go to the next stage.
We are building the least viable product.
What we will do is learn,
improve our value proposal,
our business model, our minimum
viable product until
we reach problem solution
fit.
Many people understand the concept
of the minimum viable product, but
then do not apply it.
So what we’re going to do is
do it in a very structured way.
Here the key is to identify, but
what do I include in the minimum
viable product?
And more importantly, what do I not
include?
What do you have to include?
What you have to include
is, you have to identify what
the real value you generate,
why they buy you, what are
the problems you solve and
what are the features, key
and basic functionalities.
This, which seems very obvious
to you, I guarantee you that if
we pick up a lot of entrepreneurs
they’t explain it to us.
They don’t really know why they
buy them, they don’t know what the
key aspects of their value proposal are.
Well, you’ll identify them and what
you’ll do is create a product that
incorporates those key factors
into your value proposal and
will be naked of everything
else.
Do not add anything else, do
not complicate things.
Whatever you complicate, even
if you think you don’t, we all
tend to complicate things.
Making a product that we think
is better and usually is worse
and, in addition, everything
you incorporate takes time,
costs, risks, etc.
So what we’re going to do is identify
what the key factors are
and create your minimum viable
product.
And we will go out to the market and
we will start validating the entire
business model and we will do so
by relying on the metrics.
In the key metrics of your business
model, in that dashboard we will be
measuring, we will be improving,
we will be measuring, we will
be improving, we will be learning,
until one day we reach
Product Market Fit.
When will we know that we have
reached Product Market Fit?
By the way, we always say that
when you reach it, you know it, you
feel it, it’s like when you’re
in love, you can’t fool yourself.
Well, we’ll force you again
to ask questions.
If you have scientifically, empirically
checked with your customers who buy
you, who see value, who recommend
it, if you understand perfectly,
if you know who your customer people
are and know them perfectly, you
know the messages that arrive to
them, those that do not arrive
to them, you know those that hurt
them, when you validated that the
size is large enough, that there
are enough people who will be
willing to buy, when you
know what are the channels through
which you can reach your customers,
when you validated that
you can grow, that you can scale,
when you know the prices, the
margins, when you know all
this, you have reached Product
Market Fit and at that time
you will have a very solid
base.
In fact, everything will be much
easier.
From here, well, in addition to giving
you the congratulations, because
there are few companies that
get it, you’ll have to worry about
other things that will come
after, such as marketing,
such as pushing that business
model.
Push it because we already know that
this is the optimal business
model, because we already know
that we have a value proposal that
fits the perception with a
segment of customers and as
we are sure of it because we have
bought it, it makes sense to push
it, but not before.
Just at this moment you can stop looking
for yourself, you can put the mode
of execution.
Here it makes sense to optimize
the channels, start to reach agreements
with partners, I don’t know, try
to win traction and so on,
but only when you’ve reached it.
Why am I going to end this?
Why do I recall this?
Because it is the mistake that
99.9% of people make that they reach
new products, services or innovative
business models and is to put
the mode of execution from
the beginning.
And I always compare it with
whether we cut off the learning of
a boy or a girl when she is not
12 or 13.
What happens if you stop and
stop learning at that moment?
There will be others who
will go far beyond
you.
So let’s end this.